Patrick Julian Quin ingested the zany text with a quizzical stare. Row after row of gibberish and quite absurd phrases.
Outside on the jukebox was playing something relatively new. Distracted by the song, Patrick forgot, for a moment, the quirky tosh. Until the next song, lacking in razzamatazz, replaced the interesting tune.
Concentrating once again on the unusual text, Patrick detected a faint pattern. This word ziggurat juxtaposed with that word zeitgeist appeared a bit off. Sesquicentenary shoved into a sentence with syzygy, zygote, jujitsu and borborygmi. It seemed mighty strange that so many extremely rare words should come together on one piece of paper.
Noting his discoveries on a textfile on his laptop, Patrick squinted harder at the mysterious clauses. Surely, Patrick thought, there's a very good reason for the quaint text. The author might be, in a very clumsy fashion, disrupting normal letter frequencies with words like quetzal, vodka, and quarto. Even exotic foreign words such as koyaanisqatsi and sangfroid appeared with low-freq English words like adze and creampuff.
Another significant part of the puzzle was scribbled below the text, in a handwritten strip. Dozens of numbers, mostly below fifty, added to the infuriating text and almost triggered Patrick's arithmophobia. One number caught his attention as being much larger than the numbers left and right of it, but Patrick was no Ramanujan, Euler, or Bernoulli.
Figuring out the significance of the numbers was not likely, so he read the text once over. The text was not academic, did not contain any procedures or announcements, but had a spiky vibe that made Patrick think of echidnas and cacti.
What made things difficult for Patrick was that he was under some time stress. Other high-priority tasks were stacked in his in-tray near the window sill.
Patrick eventually realised that he should square his understanding of the text in conjunction with the numbers, and not separate the two. Reading the text as a book cipher, AKA Ottendorf cipher, didn't show up anything new. Internet research provided information about something else of which Patrick was not previously aware.
Matching one thing with another, he started to make some genuine progress on this headache of a poser.

19, 15, 185, 17, 8, 38, 33, 115, 17, 28, 13, 24, 28, 3, 62, 26, 35, 43, 43, 25, 41, 8, 42, 18, 36, 21, 13, 403, 33, 8, 35, 30, 2, 38, 8, 6, 33, 27, 559, 259, 9, 35, 24, 17, 43, 5, 1, 14, 15, 38, 38, 9, 15, 33, 25, 29, 34, 33, 703, 15, 12, 10, 22, 41, 38, 26, 23, 4, 4, 39, 16, 20, 4, 20, 40, 27, 21, 3, 10, 42, 33, 11, 7, 20, 25, 40, 24, 18, 21, 215, 4, 14, 943, 6, 34, 22, 27, 36, 7, 8, 30, 87, 14, 13